chore(docs): Add first batch of Cloud docs (#36218)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/how-to/cloud/working-with-redirects-and-rewrites.md

---
title: "Working with Redirects and Rewrites"
description: "Learn how to leverage redirects, rewrites, and reverse proxies in Gatsby Cloud"

> label: "cloud"

Reviewer: Where is this label coming from?

---

## What is a redirect?

Redirects are settings in the network layer that allow you to route traffic from one url path to another with little to no disruption.

For instance, while rebuilding your cooking blog, you might want to move all of your recipes from their old path of blog/recipes to a new path of recipes. To make sure that all the existing links to your recipes still work, you would need a way to redirect your users from blog/recipes/mouthwatering-lasagna to recipes/mouthwatering-lasagna. No one wants to lose access to such a, well, mouthwatering recipe.

> ## ♻️ How to create redirects in Gatsby Hosting

Reviewer: We don't use emojis in headings/other places and I don't think we should start doing this. They are sometimes vague and don't add any additional value

> In order to use redirects, you must include the gatsby-plugin-gatsby-cloud in your project.

Reviewer: Package names are fenced in code blocks

```suggestion
In order to use redirects, you must include `gatsby-plugin-gatsby-cloud` in your project.
```

Also, isn't this information outdated since we auto-install the plugin for everyone?

If your Gatsby project doesn't already have a gatsby-node.js file, add one at that top level of your project (alongside your gatsby-config.js).

> In gatsby-node.js file, you'll want to export the createPages method and use the createRedirects action to generate any redirects that you want to add. Here's an example showing the lasagna recipe above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `gatsby-node.js`, you'll want to use the `createPages` API to call the `createRedirect` action to generate any redirects that you want to add. Here's an example showing the lasagna recipe above:
```

```javascript:title=gatsby-node.js
// gatsby-node.js

> exports.createPages = async ({ graphql, actions }) => {

Reviewer: Indentation/Formatting is off here and in the other code blocks

Author: This should be fixed now.

Author: (I also ran prettier over the docs)

Reviewer: Prettier doesn't run inside codeblocks when a `:title` is used as it can't understand which language it is. As you see below the formatting is still off.

To have it working properly it needs to be

````
```javascript title=gatsby-node.js
````

(But that's just a btw)

	const { createRedirect } = actions;

	createRedirect({
    fromPath: `/blog/recipes/mouthwatering-lasagna`,
    toPath: `/recipes/mouthwatering-lasagna`,
  });
}
```

Once you've made these changes and deployed the changes through Gatsby Cloud, you should be able to test your changes once the CDN cache has been purged.

There are a few extra options that you can add for redirects, so make sure that you checkout the Gatsby Docs for more details.

## 🖥️ Advanced Use Cases

Wildcard Path Redirects

> In our example above, you've explicitly redirected one of your recipe urls, and after adding a few others, you realize that you won't have time to get all the old urls. So you decide that any other url that uses your old path blog/recipes/\* should just be redirected to the new /recipes path. Here's how you'd handle that:

Reviewer: You don't have to escape the `*` when you put those URLs into codeblocks. Here and in other places the URLs should be in codeblocks

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
createRedirect({
  fromPath: `/book_list`,
  toPath: `/en/book_list`,
  conditions: {
    language: [`en`],
  },
})

createRedirect({
  fromPath: `/book_list/*`,
  toPath: `/zh/book_list/*`,
  conditions: {
    language: [`zh`],
  },
})
```

### ☝️Tip: Using a Static File to Manage Redirects

You might want to simplify managing your redirects by using a static file to store redirects. Storing that file in your Gatsby project can simplify your code and make it easier fo other contributors to add more redirects.

At Gatsby, we use a YAML file to store our redirects so that the whole team can easily add new redirects without having to change the gatsby-node file. You could also use a JSON file if your team is comfortable with that.

Here's how you could do it for our recipes site using a JSON file:

```json

> // redirects.json

Reviewer: Comments like this are incorrect syntax for JSON. Should use the `:title=redirects.json` formatting to notate that: https://www.gatsbyjs.com/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#code-formatting-titles
